Create Blog Post “vonage-joins-code-chrysalis-api-night-hackathon” (#1735)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/vonage-joins-code-chrysalis-api-night-hackathon.md

---
title: Vonage Joins Code Chrysalis API Night Hackathon
description: "In the week of 14th to 17th of September, Vonage and Code
  Chrysalis have teamed up for a special API Night Hackathon. "
author: clarisse-ng
published: true
published_at: 2021-09-29T09:48:05.847Z
updated_at: 2021-09-29T09:48:05.967Z
category: event
tags:
  - video-api
  - react
  - hackathon
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---
# Introduction

> In the week of 14th to 17th of September, Vonage and Code Chrysalis have teamed up for a special API Night Hackathon. The API Hackathon is designed to challenge the software engineering bootcamp students to innovate and build brand new apps using Vonage APIs in only four days! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the 14th of September, Vonage and Code Chrysalis teamed up for a special API Night Hackathon. The API Hackathon is designed to challenge the software engineering Bootcamp students to innovate and build brand new apps using Vonage APIs in only four days! 
```

> The hackathon began on Tuesday with an amazing presentation from [Amanda Cavallaro](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/amanda-cavallaro/) that explained what Vonage APIs are and how users can use them. The session also offered a few inspiring ideas that encouraged the participants to begin their projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hackathon began on Tuesday with an amazing presentation from [Amanda Cavallaro](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/amanda-cavallaro/) that explained what the Vonage APIs are and how to use them. The session also offered a few inspiring ideas that encouraged the participants to begin their projects. 
```

> [Amanda Cavallaro](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/amanda-cavallaro/) and [Dwane Hemmings](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/dwanehemmings/) from our Developer Relations team offered support to the participants, answered questions, and offered guidance whenever required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Amanda Cavallaro](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/amanda-cavallaro/) and [Dwane Hemmings](https://learn.vonage.com/authors/dwanehemmings/) from our Developer Relations team offered support to the participants, answered questions, and provided guidance whenever required. 
```

![Amanda introducing Video API in a presentation](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/3pkdNg3T0TSXvV3FMUiTFy_Cey8QZbZ1e5W_ZZX2M5DO-FDo6MfK8BZdpsQL_TXmAzil1_Bm3LhAnItl23f9KtKQlSBtD4dID0vpqUtbRdsBB_nIuStBhtQRGjkCC-VFCu8RPldW=s0 "Amanda introducing Video API in a presentation")

> Later that day, students decide on the kinds of applications they want to build, their features, designs, and colour schemes. They also form teams and choose the roles they want to take on, such as Tech Lead, Front-end, and Back-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Later that day, the students decided on the applications they wanted to build, their features, designs, and colour schemes. They also formed teams and chose the roles they wanted to take on, such as Tech Lead, Front-end, and Back-end.
```

# The Vonage API Challenge

Team: Subarashi

Project Name: CollabSpace - Making remote team collaboration simple! 

Problem: 

> Given the state of the world’s advancements in technologies, remote communication has been widely used but it has also created a plethora of issues that people have to face daily. With many people using different applications for communication and collaboration, it can become increasingly difficult to manage team communication across many different platforms. There is a disconnect between working on the same document, interacting, and collaborating at the same time. It happens naturally when we are in person, but online communication causes individuals to shift their attention between managing work on a document, listening to calls, looking at slides, and seeing people's faces and facial expressions to maintain connection and teamwork. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the state of the world’s advancements in technologies, remote communication has been widely used, but it has also created many issues that people have to face daily. With many people using different applications for communication and collaboration, it can become increasingly challenging to manage team communication across many different platforms. There is a disconnect between working on the same document, interacting, and collaborating at the same time. It happens naturally when we are in person, but online communication causes individuals to shift their attention between managing work on a document, listening to calls, looking at slides, and seeing people's faces and facial expressions to maintain connection and teamwork. 
```

Solution:

> CollabSpace is a convenient solution to video chat with collaborators while working together on files stored in Google Drive. It is designed for a remote learning/working environment and establishes user created “workspaces” that can hold files, such as Google docs/slides, that are then brought to the collaboration room to be worked on by multiple users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CollabSpace is a convenient solution to video chat with collaborators while working together on files stored in Google Drive. It is designed for a remote learning/working environment. It establishes user-created “workspaces” that can hold files, such as Google docs/slides, that are then brought to the collaboration room to be worked on by multiple users. 
```

The application makes online team collaboration more interactive and provides a simple, easy-to-use format for connecting with peers and editing documents in real-time. 

Features: 

* Join a new room or a currently ongoing room
* Create a new room
* Give access to a web camera, microphone, and voice chat to other participants in the room
* Workspace controls to edit documents, share documents and turn on the camera so they can see each other

Built with:

* React
* Redux
* Express
* Nodejs
* Postgres
* Material UI
* Knex
* Postgres
* Vonage Video API
* Heroku

> # Links
> 
> [Application is available on Herokuapp](https://vonage-hackathon.herokuapp.com)
> 
> [Check out their code on GitHub](https://github.com/gonuma/vonage-hackathon)
> 
> [Watch their demo and presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4O2LioAjK8)
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Application](https://vonage-hackathon.herokuapp.com) is available on Heroku, and you can check out their code on [GitHub](https://github.com/gonuma/vonage-hackathon). You can also watch their [demo and presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4O2LioAjK8)
```

![People working on document in CollabSpace](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/HXicdQVZ6h7rTvkug6ngMNavwTFrDB_W8cvTXeUy7oQgj2AVbI_yikPMg1QCVcnJYomcE8oJ5GuDNYO2_q2hFuxgEwFM-Y8p8C40cxCGgxm_2L4KhcKnLKM4zNi8av-EbynBO9nA=s0 "People working on document in CollabSpace")

# Conclusion

> It was a great success and we are glad to have been able to support the API Hackathon hosted by Code Chrysalis. The students did fantastic work building a full-stack application and deploying it on the web in only four days with our Video API! We thoroughly enjoyed the time together, and we look forward to sharing our knowledge with the students and developer communities in the future to inspire, collaborate, and learn from one another. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event was a great success, and we are glad to have been able to support the API Hackathon hosted by Code Chrysalis. The students did fantastic work building a full-stack application and deploying it on the web in only four days with our Video API! We thoroughly enjoyed the time together, and we look forward to sharing our knowledge with the students and developer communities in the future to inspire, collaborate, and learn from one another. 
```
